docs/dev/README.md, before:

# Developer Documentation

To setup GitStory as a developer, head to these files in the following order:
1) [set-up-API.md](set-up-API.md): Documents how to create your own Gemini API key for GitStory, which is essential for this project
2) [setup-guide.md](setup-guide.md): Documents how to setup the project for developers

For testing and adding packages while working on GitStory, head over to:
- [package-guide.md](package-guide.md): Documents how to add packages to the project structure
- [test-guide.md](test-guide.md): Documents how to write and run tests

To **build GitStory as a final product**, head over to the [build-guide.md](build-guide.md).

To learn more about how the GitStory team has organized and formatted the code in the repository, check out:
- [coding-guidelines.md](coding-guidelines.md): Documents how to format the code and what tools the GitStory team will use to do so
- [directory-structure.md](directory-structure.md): Documents the file structure of the GitStory project

Commit message:

Update README.md to add run commands.md

docs/dev/README.md, after:

# Developer Documentation

To setup GitStory as a developer, head to these files in the following order:
1) [set-up-API.md](set-up-API.md): Documents how to create your own Gemini API key for GitStory, which is essential for this project
2) [setup-guide.md](setup-guide.md): Documents how to setup the project for developers

For testing, running, and adding packages while working on GitStory, head over to:
- [package-guide.md](package-guide.md): Documents how to add packages to the project structure
- [test-guide.md](test-guide.md): Documents how to write and run tests
- [run-commands-guide.md](run-commands-guide.md): Documents how to run certain GitStory commands as a developer

To **build GitStory as a final product**, head over to the [build-guide.md](build-guide.md).

To learn more about how the GitStory team has organized and formatted the code in the repository, check out:
- [coding-guidelines.md](coding-guidelines.md): Documents how to format the code and what tools the GitStory team will use to do so
- [directory-structure.md](directory-structure.md): Documents the file structure of the GitStory project
